What is (AWS RDS) Relational Database Service?

As an AWS Engineer Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) represents a managed SQL database solution offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It streamlines the process of setting up, operating, and scaling relational databases within the AWS Cloud environment.
Key features of AWS RDS include:
Ease of Management: 


RDS simplifies the management of relational databases by handling routine tasks such as backups, patch management, and scaling, allowing administrators to focus on core business tasks.


High Availability and Failover:


 RDS automatically creates multiple instances to ensure high availability and redundancy, minimizing the risk of downtime due to hardware failures or other issues.


Support for Multiple Database Engines: 


RDS supports various popular relational database engines including PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, SQL Server, and Amazon Aurora, providing flexibility and choice for different application requirements.
To create an AWS RDS instance and connect it with an EC2 instance, follow these general steps:
 Go to the RDS dashboard from the AWS Management Console.




Create a New RDS Instance: 


Click on the "Create database" button to start the process of creating a new RDS instance.


Select Database Engine: 


Choose the database engine you want to use (e.g., MySQL, PostgreSQL, etc.) and select appropriate configurations such as instance size, storage type, and allocated storage.


Configure Additional Settings:


 Configure additional settings including database instance identifier, master username, password, and network settings such as VPC, subnet group, security groups, etc.


Enable Public Accessibility (Optional): 


If you want your RDS instance to be publicly accessible, configure the appropriate settings for public accessibility.


Create RDS Instance: 


Review your configuration settings and click on the "Create database" button to create the RDS instance. The creation process may take some time to complete.
Modify Security Group: 


Ensure that the security group associated with the RDS instance allows inbound traffic from the EC2 instance.


Connect EC2 Instance to RDS: 


Use the connection details provided by AWS (endpoint, port, username, password) to connect your EC2 instance to the RDS instance using your preferred database client or application.


Test Connection: 


Verify that the connection between the EC2 instance and RDS instance is successful by running test queries or performing database operations.


show databases;
create database employee;
use employee;
